[APPLAUSE]
STEPHEN COLBERT: Thank you.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Welcome
to Google.
STEPHEN COLBERT: A pleasure
to be here in the flesh.
I watch you guys online
all the time.
Really great show.
It's slow, but you just never
know where the plot's going.
ERIC SCHMIDT: We have asked
our employees what
questions they have.
I'm going to give you
the first question.
This is an anonymous question.
STEPHEN COLBERT: So they
ask the employees?
You're not asking
the employees.
They are.
ERIC SCHMIDT: No.
The questions have asked
the employees--
[LAUGHS]
ERIC SCHMIDT: The employees
have asked the questions--
STEPHEN COLBERT: So you've
done nothing.
You've done nothing.
ERIC SCHMIDT: I do nothing.
That's correct.
STEPHEN COLBERT: You're just
a titular figurehead.
ERIC SCHMIDT: That is correct.
STEPHEN COLBERT: All right.
ERIC SCHMIDT: So the anonymous
question from Michael Jones
goes like this.
STEPHEN COLBERT: That
sounds like an
anonymous name, actually.
ERIC SCHMIDT: "I don't
understand the title 'America
Again, Re-becoming the Greatness
that We Never
Weren't.'" This is, of course,
your new book, which is
already the number one best
seller in the nation.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Yes.
Yes.
Thank you.
ERIC SCHMIDT: "'America again'
suggests re-creation.
'Re-becoming' suggests
re-creation.
'The greatness,'
'we,' is clear.
All of this is logical and
fine, although obviously
Yoda-esque.
But then case A, 'never were'
was the impression that you
were trying to create would
be a perfect conclusion.
But you added the apostrophe,
n, t.
Taken in total, this would be
a clever play on words,
meaning once again becoming the
country we hypothecate,
have built in myth or a fable.
Is this not the title?
Hmm.
Case B, 'never weren't' which
is what you chose, which
means--" I'm not done
yet, Stephen.
STEPHEN COLBERT: I know.
No, no.
Go on.
Go on, please.
ERIC SCHMIDT: OK. "Which means
we never were not, and thus
never have been.
And thus, the whole phrase is
once again becoming the
country we have always been.
This is strictly logical, which
you cannot become, which
you're not at present." What
do you say to this?
STEPHEN COLBERT: Well,
I say to this.
To Michael--
ERIC SCHMIDT: This is the
hardest and toughest criticism
of your title that
I have ever seen.
STEPHEN COLBERT: OK.
So Michael.
"Michael." "Michael Jones."
Michael, the fool says in his
heart there is no God.
But by God, he means that thing
then which no greater
thing can be conceived.
But by conceiving of that
thing, he automatically
defines God as whatever he
can greatest imagine.
Therefore, God does exist
because he has imagined that
thing which must be greater
in reality than in his
imagination.
ERIC SCHMIDT: I completely
agree.
All right.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Those of you
who are not familiar with
Saint Anselm's ontological
argument, I'll boil it down
for you again.
"America Again, Re-becoming
the Greatness We Never
Weren't" has to be
written this way.
Because clearly, our country's
in trouble.
Yes?
OK.
OK, you can tell because I am
the country, and I'm all
beaten up on the cover here.
We want to re-become the
greatness, right?
All right.
But if I said, we never were,
then that would mean America
was never great.
Right?
ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes.
STEPHEN COLBERT: But if I said
that we presently aren't, that
would mean I am criticizing
America, which you
mustn't ever do.
Therefore, it's "America
Again, Re-becoming the
Greatness We Never Weren't."
Unless you've got something
bad to say about America,
Eric Schmidt.
Do you have something bad
to say about America?
Because let me know.
Because I'm sure all these
people and YouTube would love
to know what problem you've got
with the US of A, mister.
Because I don't.
And I've proven it with a title
that makes no sense.
ERIC SCHMIDT: But I
thought you just
convinced us that it did.
Now, I want to continue.
STEPHEN COLBERT: The title
is a peon to all the--
the Republican Convention,
for instance.
The Republican Convention
said, America is great.
And we mustn't listen to these
people who criticize our
country and do not think
it's the greatest
country in the world.
And then in the next sentence,
they would say, we must return
to greatness.
They would say it sometimes
in the same breath.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Makes
perfect sense.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Yeah.
American exceptionalism means
the rules don't apply to us.
But the feeling on the right is
that we are losing the game
of being a country.
And so this was trying
to capture
both of those feelings.
There's a dichotomy.
There's a cognitive dissonance
that constantly exists on the
right, and even more strongly
now, that we must return to a
greatness that we
presently have.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes.
Now, I want to explore--
STEPHEN COLBERT: Did anyone--
hold on.
Did anyone recognize--
I'm sorry I'm stopping
you in the
middle asking me a question.
But it's Google, and
there are no rules.
I've been told I have
to keep my pants on.
But that's it.
And that he will enforce
it strictly.
You will enforce
this strictly.
Did anyone recognize Saint
Anselm's argument for the
ontological existence of God?
Yes, you did?
Move to the head of the class,
where you already are.
ERIC SCHMIDT: He actually
used Google.
You pretty much ran for
president and raised a Super
PAC and so forth.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Yeah.
I did absolutely have
a Super PAC.
And I kind of ran
for president.
I ran as much for president as
I wanted to avoid violating
federal law.
ERIC SCHMIDT: OK.
Good answer.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Good lawyer.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Now, Jim DeMint
has just announced--
STEPHEN COLBERT: Jim
DeMint, yes.
Jim's a friend.
But go ahead.
ERIC SCHMIDT: He's just
announced that he's retiring.
And it occurs to me that
you might want to--
you're from South Carolina
originally, I think.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Yes.
I'm from South Carolina,
the palmetto state.
ERIC SCHMIDT: You might want
to run for Senate.
Have you considered--
STEPHEN COLBERT: No, I do not
want to run for Senate.
I want Nikki Haley to just
appoint me to Senate.
That's the great thing.
People are asking me, are you
going to run for Senate?
I'm like, no.
Why would you run?
She just gets to
say, it's you.
So yeah.
I'm honored by what you're
implying and by the
groundswell that I've felt.
But obviously, that's something
I have to take up
with my family and my pastor
before I decide whether to
take that position.
Is there another question,
Senator?
ERIC SCHMIDT: Do you think that
Bill O'Reilly would be a
better choice?
STEPHEN COLBERT: He's not
from South Carolina.
But he's a very talented man.
And I sincerely admire his
broadcasting abilities.
ERIC SCHMIDT: But you're locked
in a deathly battle.
STEPHEN COLBERT: With
Bill right now?
ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Oh,
you mean over the--
ERIC SCHMIDT: The book.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Over
the book, exactly.
Bill's got a book out called
"Killing Kennedy." And I
admire his obsession with
terrible things happening to
presidents.
He's got "Killing Lincoln,"
"Killing Kennedy," "Sodomizing
Coolidge." That's
a kids' book.
And he was on Jon
Stewart's show.
And he said his next book's
going to be called "Killing
Colbert." And it broke my
character's heart so much to
hear papa bear say that.
So we launched operation killing
"Killing Kennedy,"
where I'm just telling my
audience out there--
I'm not telling you
to buy my book.
I don't want to abuse
the relationship.
But I'm just reminding them,
if you're going to buy my
book-- and you are.
If you're going to buy my book,
just do it all in one
week so we can leapfrog
at least one
of his killing books.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Which week
do you want us to
all buy your book?
STEPHEN COLBERT: Right now.
As we speak.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Right now?
This week?
STEPHEN COLBERT:
Yes, right now.
Go right now and go to a local
bookstore, a small bookstore,
a big bookstore, online.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Your book
is on Google Play.
STEPHEN COLBERT: What
does that mean?
ERIC SCHMIDT: It's
our online store.
You're going to end up
being your best--
STEPHEN COLBERT: Yeah, I know
all about Google Play.
Really?
ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Go
to Google Play.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Absolutely.
STEPHEN COLBERT: And
what happens there?
ERIC SCHMIDT: People are going
to pay you lots of money to
buy your book.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Well, then
it's a wonderful service.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Excellent.
STEPHEN COLBERT: So you go
there, and you click on it?
It's like going to--
it's like that one that's named
after a rainforest?
You go to that one, and you
click on it, and you get it?
ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes, it's the
competitor to the rainforest.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Good.
ERIC SCHMIDT: And furthermore
it's--
STEPHEN COLBERT: Good.
Because we got to preserve
that rainforest.
We got to start making books
out of that rainforest.
Do you get a physical book from
you guys, or is it all
the ebook thing?
ERIC SCHMIDT: It's
an ebook thing.
STEPHEN COLBERT: It's
only ebook?
ERIC SCHMIDT: You can get
a physical book, too.
We'll sell you one of those.
STEPHEN COLBERT: You will?
ERIC SCHMIDT: Yeah, we'll get
it through your publisher.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Good.
ERIC SCHMIDT: At list
price, no less.
STEPHEN COLBERT: What?
At less price?
ERIC SCHMIDT: At list price.
STEPHEN COLBERT:
At list price.
At list price?
So go to Google+ for no deal.
If you're willing to pay list--
which you should.
Because if you pay list price,
they include more book.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Understood.
STEPHEN COLBERT: I'm not going
to give any of this
stuff away for free.
ERIC SCHMIDT: I want to
explore some of the--
and I should not turn this into
an Android commercial.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Go ahead.
ERIC SCHMIDT: But
Android is now--
STEPHEN COLBERT: Now,
Android is?
ERIC SCHMIDT: The operating
system that we sell.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Got it.
Got it.
All right.
ERIC SCHMIDT: And Android
is five times
larger than the iPhone.
STEPHEN COLBERT: I know.
I know.
ERIC SCHMIDT: And Google
Play runs on that.
STEPHEN COLBERT: No, I
read that someplace.
ERIC SCHMIDT: So people will
actually be reading your book
on the most popular
operating system.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Then it's going
to make my book better.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Absolutely.
STEPHEN COLBERT: OK.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Which is
why we support it.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Great.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Good.
Let's try--
STEPHEN COLBERT: I have
a Google tablet.
I have a Google tablet.
I have that little
Google tablet.
It's got that slightly pebbled
finish and everything.
ERIC SCHMIDT: It's phenomenally
successful.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Can I
make a suggestion?
ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Can I add an
external volume thing on it?
ERIC SCHMIDT: Yeah.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Because you
actually got to go into a
screen to do the volume.
An external--
ERIC SCHMIDT: That
would cost extra.
STEPHEN COLBERT: I'm
made of money.
ERIC SCHMIDT: OK.
STEPHEN COLBERT: After
this thing--
ERIC SCHMIDT: I want to explore
the precedents that
brought you to this view of
American exceptionalism.
And I want to understand why
"A Man for All Seasons" is
your most favorite book.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Well,
it's a play.
But the book form of it is
actually one of my favorite
things to read.
The introduction to "A Man For
All Seasons," which is by
Robert Bolt-- and if you've
never seen it, it's the story
of Sir Thomas More,
or Saint Thomas
More if you're a Catholic.
And I'm a Catholic.
And it's the story of the man
who was a friend of the king,
King Henry VIII.
And he was made chancellor
of England.
And Henry wanted to get rid
of his wife, be done with
Catherine and get Anne
Boleyn in there.
And Thomas More wouldn't put
his hand on a little black
book, raise his hand and say,
I agree with the king.
He just stayed silent, wouldn't
say anything.
And Henry chopped
his head off.
ERIC SCHMIDT: We saw this
in "The Tudors."
STEPHEN COLBERT: Yeah.
It's a little different
in the play.
But less of this in the
Robert Bolt version.
I really like it, because it's
the story about essentially,
is there any part of you, as
More says, is there any part
of you that is not
your appetites?
Is there any part of you
that is not your fears
and not your desires?
In other words, is there
any part of you that
doesn't want or reject?
Is there any part of you that is
just you and from which you
cannot retreat?
And
When I first started doing the
show, I asked, especially the
people who were at the head of
my show, for instance, Allison
Silverman, who was my
original executive.
No, she was my first
head writer.
I said, I'd love you
to read this essay.
Because certainly during the
Bush administration, there was
no criticism of President Bush
when he first started.
We tried to fix that.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes, I'm going
to come back to that.
STEPHEN COLBERT: What?
ERIC SCHMIDT: I'm going
to come back.
STEPHEN COLBERT: OK.
And there were so many people
who were afraid to be critical
of the government at all because
you could be called
anti-American.
And I love the play, because in
this example, he loves the
king but can't agree with him,
in the same way that someone
could love their country but
not agree with them.
And can you bring yourself to
swim against the tide of all
your fellows?
Can you keep yourself with your
own opinions and your own
ethics, your own morals,
regardless of
the tide of the times?
And the Bush administration
was--
so many people got swept in the
wrong direction, I think.
ERIC SCHMIDT: And what
was interesting was--
I was in the audience when you
gave the speech at the
correspondents' dinner.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Oh,
you were there?
ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes.
STEPHEN COLBERT: OK.
ERIC SCHMIDT: You know, I
have nothing else to do.
And so I was sitting there.
And I was shocked that they were
foolish enough to invite
you, because you were so good.
And I think that performance
put you from sort of a
specialized service to a
truly national figure.
That's my opinion.
I think it literally
changed the
perception of you in society.
STEPHEN COLBERT: I went from
boutique to chain store at
that point, I guess.
ERIC SCHMIDT: It was like
a step function.
STEPHEN COLBERT: What's
a step function?
What's a step function?
ERIC SCHMIDT: It's a big jump.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Oh, OK.
Sure.
ERIC SCHMIDT: It's a
mathematical term.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Like
the number line?
Like the number line?
Is that what you mean by math?
ERIC SCHMIDT: That's
what we do.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Number line,
I got the number line down.
ERIC SCHMIDT: So it was like a
really big discontinuous jump.
And why do you think
they invited you?
Did they know what they were
getting themselves into?
[THUD]
[LAUGHTER]
STEPHEN COLBERT: They're
coming for me.
I've been waiting.
I did peer through the
blinds for a couple
weeks after that show.
I got invited really early.
The show started on
October 17, 2005.
And--
[BEEPING]
STEPHEN COLBERT: All right.
ERIC SCHMIDT: So this building
was used by the Port Authority
to bring buses up and down.
Those are the bus--
STEPHEN COLBERT: Lifts.
ERIC SCHMIDT: --elevators.
So there's a truck about to come
in and destroy us all.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Good.
ERIC SCHMIDT: It's backing up.
That's the backing up sound.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Well, I'm glad
to be here with you at
the end, Eric Schmidt.
ERIC SCHMIDT: I thought the
end was on December 21.
STEPHEN COLBERT:
Probably, yeah.
Probably.
Yeah.
Though I've-- yeah, probably.
ERIC SCHMIDT: No need to plan
for anything on December 22 in
the Mayan calendar.
Getting me back to President
Bush, who we've conveniently
forgotten--
STEPHEN COLBERT: Well,
I was invited
by the press, actually.
For the correspondents' dinner,
you are invited by
whoever is the head
of the White House
press corps that year.
And it was a guy named--
I think it's Mark Smith was the
guy from the AP, I think.
And he invited me.
And we were only a few
months into the show.
We started in October
17, 2005.
And it was January, I think, or
early February when I got
the invitation.
And I said to my agent,
James Dixon--
I said, let me call him back.
Let me call him back.
And I said, I think
I want to do this.
I'm going to call him back.
And I called Jon Stewart
immediately.
And I said, hey, Jon.
I got invited down to the
correspondents' dinner.
What do you think?
And he goes, to be a guest?
What you mean?
And I said, no, they want
me to be the guy.
And he goes, what?
Have they ever seen your show?
And I said, I don't know.
I said, I'm not going to ask.
And I said, I think I kind
of got to do it.
And he goes, you've
got to do it.
And then we were
really worried.
I knew I'd never get this
opportunity again.
No one's ever going
to ask me back.
But about two weeks out, we
started working on it
about a month out.
And the very first joke we wrote
for it was, people say
that this administration is just
rearranging deck chairs
on the Titanic.
That is wrong.
They are not sinking,
they are soaring.
If anything, they are
rearranging the deck chairs on
the Hindenburg.
And to me, that was the spirit
of the entire thing.
Like, how positive
could we be--
[JABBING SOUNDS]
STEPHEN COLBERT: --while
they knife them?
And the press too.
And the press too, of course.
Because people forget that
we did 10 minutes on the
administration, 10 minutes
on the press.
But anyway, about three days
before I went down there, we'd
been working.
We do 161 shows a year.
And we pulled very long weeks.
As I was saying before,
65, 70 hour weeks.
And we were super tired.
You guys know what that's
like, I'm sure.
And I go in, I get my coffee
from a very nice woman who was
from Algeria.
And I walked into her
coffee shop right
before I went down there.
And she goes, (ALGERIAN
ACCENT) oh,
babies, you're so tired.
What's wrong?
And this is my Algerian
accent.
And I told her what
I was working on.
She goes, you're performing
for the president?
I said, yes.
And I go, he's going to be five
feet away from me the
whole time.
And she said, but you
are, uh, a critic.
You're a critic.
And I said, yes.
But I get to do my jokes
just right at him.
And she leaned across.
She's a little lady,
very cute.
And she leans across
the counter.
And she took my chin
in her hand.
And she said, it's
a good country.
And I said, yeah.
It sure is.
And I told that story
to the President.
Because there's a party before
the correspondents' dinner
that's really great.
It's you, some cabinet members,
heads of several
press organizations,
and the President.
And my family was there.
And my mother loved
President Bush.
He couldn't have been
nicer to my mom.
It was really a charming
party.
And I told him that story.
Because he goes, it's
nice we can do this.
And I told him the story.
And he goes, only in America.
And it was a very positive kind
of vibe that lasted for
about another hour.
It was fun.
It was a really fun night.
ERIC SCHMIDT: But
from that point,
something happened in America.
You and Jon Stewart actually
became the major political
operatives, whether you
like it or not.
STEPHEN COLBERT: I don't.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Well, trust me.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Because
I'm a comedian.
I'm not a political operative.
I make jokes about the news.
A lot of the news is
about politics.
That's not my fault.
ERIC SCHMIDT: OK.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Do you
know what I mean?
Political operative means that
you have some gain beyond what
you're doing.
Politics itself means I am not
telling you my intention.
I am showing you an action that
is causing a reaction
from you while I'm playing
another chess piece over here.
And together I will triangulate
some secretive way
where I will achieve
power over you.
Political action is class
against class.
I'm not trying to get
power over anybody.
That's why I don't like
the idea of political
actor in any way.
I'm making jokes.
I'm trying to make
you laugh about
something that I care about.
About something I care about.
ERIC SCHMIDT: But the fact of
the matter is that the trusted
organizations of our
society have been
replaced by you and Jon.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Bullshit.
And I'll tell you why.
No, no.
I'll tell you why.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Am I right?
STEPHEN COLBERT: Because if
that was true, they--
no.
[APPLAUSE]
ERIC SCHMIDT: Come on.
Come on.
STEPHEN COLBERT:
That's lovely.
Because people have asked
me this before.
And I don't think that's true,
because if that was the case,
people wouldn't get my jokes.
Because I'm not explaining
that much to you.
First of all, you have to know
what I'm referencing to
understand half of my joke.
And two, I don't explain the
news story that well to you.
People come to me
with knowledge.
They might enjoy watching the
show more than they enjoy
watching straight news.
But they had to have gotten
news someplace else before
they get to me, or else
they wouldn't care.
ERIC SCHMIDT: But independent of
whether I'm right or you're
right, the fact of
the matter is--
STEPHEN COLBERT: No, no.
I'm right.
It matters who's
right, I think.
It matters who's right.
Because this is what's
wrong with news.
They say, independent
of who's right,
let's talk about something.
No.
Someone's right.
I'm saying you're the problem,
Eric Schmidt.
That's what I just said.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Let's agree that
there is an issue between you
now and the Washington
establishment because you have
enormous reach.
STEPHEN COLBERT: I've got to be
careful where I point this
thing is what you're saying?
Because it's loaded.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Wag
of the finger.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Yeah.
Wag of the finger.
Exactly, yeah.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Wag
of the finger.
So do you think you and
Washington are oil and water?
How do you think it plays out?
STEPHEN COLBERT: Man, they don't
seem to like it when I
go down there.
They're never that thrilled
when I show up.
So I don't know if we're
oil and water.
But it's not my world.
I don't have any desire to
have political power.
People thought Jon and I were
doing that rally to
be players and to--
what was it?
We were accused of trying to
actuate the youth vote and to
drive people to the polls to
win for the Democrats.
And we've got this power.
How will we exercise this
political vote gun that we've
got with a quarter of a million
people on the mall and
all this attention?
And it just reminded me of--
I'm a huge "Lord of the Rings"
fan, as people sometimes know.
And there's a great moment
in "The Lord
of the Rings" where--
if there's somebody here who
doesn't know the plot, they
got a ring.
They're trying to destroy
it to get rid of Sauron.
Listen, 10 years ago, people
were going, oh, yeah.
What's the story about?
ERIC SCHMIDT: Is--
STEPHEN COLBERT: Oh, no, no.
This is important.
There's a meeting toward
the end of it.
Gandalf says to everybody
here, everybody in the
meeting-- it's Aragon and
some other people.
And he goes, listen, our only
hope, our only hope for Frodo
and Sam to succeed is that
Sauron cannot imagine anyone
would want to destroy
the ring.
He can't imagine we don't
want this power.
When people kept on saying,
what's their intention with
this rally?
It was like, we're just
Frodo and Sam.
Washington is Mordor.
We're trying to throw the Ring
of Divisiveness into the fires
of Mount Mall.
ERIC SCHMIDT: So why can't
they just fly Frodo into
Mordor and throw the ring in
and solve this problem?
STEPHEN COLBERT: Because
they'd see him coming.
And the Nazgul have
flying steeds.
ERIC SCHMIDT: I don't think
DC has any Nazguls.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Oh, you're
back to the metaphor.
I thought you were talking about
something important,
"The Lord of the Rings."
ERIC SCHMIDT: Why don't
we continue?
STEPHEN COLBERT: What
do you think of my
little metaphor there?
ERIC SCHMIDT: I think your
metaphor's fantastic.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Thank you.
Thank you.
You're a very smart man.
ERIC SCHMIDT: I want
to continue.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Thanks to you,
we got a great shot of
the mall with all the
people on it.
You helped us out with
that map image.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Yeah,
absolutely.
Google Maps are phenomenal.
Ask an Apple user.
[APPLAUSE]
ERIC SCHMIDT: I want to ask--
things are going really well.
STEPHEN COLBERT: In this
interview right now?
ERIC SCHMIDT: No.
No.
In Google.
And I wanted to ask, for the
benefit of our employees, tell
us more about the Colbert
Platinum.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Colbert
Platinum?
ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Well, Colbert
Platinum, it's a rare
opportunity to upgrade your
membership to the nation.
It upgrades your citizenship
in the United States.
It get you into all the finest
things that I can't even tell
you about, because you're
not in the Platinum yet.
You know how rich people
have better
things than other people?
ERIC SCHMIDT: OK.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Like that.
How do these prospective
members join?
STEPHEN COLBERT: Working for
Google is a good start.
The Platinum is actually a
piece we do on the show,
Colbert Platinum, about the
Platinum lifestyle.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Now, you tell
everyone to turn off their
televisions unless they're--
STEPHEN COLBERT: If you're not
a Platinum member of the
nation, this not for you.
So we tell them to go off and
go drink their store brand
sodas and come back to us later,
which is good for them.
I understand it's
good for them.
They just need the
carbonation.
But we stopped doing Colbert
Platinum, actually, because
the economy got so bad that we
actually felt it bumming out
the audience.
So for a while, we changed it.
Starting in 2009, we stopped
doing Colbert Platinum because
it really was bumming
out people.
And also, high end things
weren't being bought, like
personal submarines and
stuff like that.
So we changed it for a while.
We changed it to Colbert
Aluminum.
And then now we just
don't do it at all.
But we'll relaunch it
again sometime.
ERIC SCHMIDT: I cannot wait.
Now are you going
to have a whole
year of "Hobbit" stories?
STEPHEN COLBERT: No,
we did a week.
ERIC SCHMIDT: I know
you did a week.
STEPHEN COLBERT: We
did a week of it.
And I kind of maxed out.
And we got to come back.
We got to leave Middle Earth
and come back to America in
the new year.
ERIC SCHMIDT: And so in this
doctrine of American
exceptionalism, which is I
think what the book is
actually about.
STEPHEN COLBERT: It is.
That's the first chapter is the
thesis statement, American
exceptionalism.
Rules don't apply to us.
ERIC SCHMIDT: OK.
So if that's true, how does
America become great if the
rules don't apply to us?
STEPHEN COLBERT: Buy the book.
Every chapter tells us how to
return to what we already know
is the right thing, is to
reject socialism, reject
collectivism, and
go with the gut.
We even have a chapter
just on food.
Why America is the crispest,
crunchiest, most corn-fed
nation on earth.
And if you are what you eat,
then put a stick up our butt,
and we're all corn dogs,
walking around.
ERIC SCHMIDT: In preparing for
this book, did you study the
amendments to the
Constitution?
And did you have any opinions
about the amendments?
STEPHEN COLBERT: I always have
opinions about the amendments
to the Constitution.
I mean, everybody's got their
top, what their top 10
amendments are.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Do you have
a top one you like?
STEPHEN COLBERT: My number
one would probably
be the Second Amendment.
And my number two
would probably
be the First Amendment.
And then probably my third
would be the Seventh.
My fourth would be the Tenth.
Fifth would be the Ninth.
Sixth would be the Eighth.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Is everybody
writing this down?
STEPHEN COLBERT: Yeah, get this
down, because I don't
have a rationale behind it.
So I won't remember.
ERIC SCHMIDT: OK.
I'm waiting for you to think
some more about the
amendments, what they stand for,
American exceptionalism.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Sure.
I have nothing more to
say, Eric Schmidt.
No, but there's nothing about
the Constitution in the book.
ERIC SCHMIDT: But the
Constitution allows
this book to be--
it's free speech.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Sure, no, no.
Yeah, well, the Second
Amendment allows
this book to exist.
ERIC SCHMIDT: The First--
STEPHEN COLBERT: Because
if anybody--
no, no, the Second Amendment.
Because if anybody stopped me
from publishing this book, I
would shoot them in the face.
Do you understand me?
Understand me?
Are we clear?
ERIC SCHMIDT: That's
very, very clear.
STEPHEN COLBERT: It does.
The Second Amendment
guarantees all other liberties.
ERIC SCHMIDT: I think it's time
to start getting some
questions from our audience.
STEPHEN COLBERT: That'd
be great.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Who would like
to ask a question?
We have a microphone
right here.
And we have a microphone
right over here.
STEPHEN COLBERT: I like these
moments of silence.
AUDIENCE: I've got
one for you.
I'm curious to know when's the
last time you had to audition
for something.
And how did it go?
STEPHEN COLBERT: Well, I'll
tell you the first time I
didn't have to audition for
something was for "Law and
Order, Criminal Intent."
AUDIENCE: I actually
remember that.
STEPHEN COLBERT: I played a
forger who lives with his
mother who's sort of a psycho
who kills people through the
mail with lie bombs.
And I didn't have audition
because they said, we wrote it
with you in mind.
AUDIENCE: Nice compliment.
STEPHEN COLBERT: It's
been a while.
Boy, I paid my dues, though.
I auditioned for a lot.
I don't know.
I mean, I've auditioned
for movies, I guess.
But I've been doing my
show for seven years.
I don't think I've auditioned
for anything since I've done
my show because I don't
have time to
hypothetically do something.
Do you know what I mean?
I either have to do my show.
Or if you'd like me to do
something, I can try to make
time for it if it still sounds
like it's going to be fun or
challenging or something
like that.
But seven years, eight years,
something like that.
I don't mind auditioning.
I really don't.
Because if I was on the other
side, I would definitely want
to know whether the
guy could do it.
I don't want to hire somebody
because they're famous or
really handsome.
AUDIENCE: Yes.
Thanks.
ERIC SCHMIDT: You have
a question over here.
Meanwhile, I'll ask you how do
you think Google can become
the greatness that
we never weren't?
STEPHEN COLBERT: It kind
of already is.
And I'm not trying to blow
secondhand smoke up your butt.
Google can be anything
you want it to be.
Because it's a reflection
of your own desire.
It's a porthole toward what
you want it to be.
Unless you guys are putting
some restricters on the
information that I think I'm
getting, then it is anything
we want it to be.
Because it's an actuator.
Or it's a pathway to what we
want, rather than the thing we
want itself.
Do you know what I mean?
So it's the finger that allows
us to look at the moon.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Good.
We'll take that.
STEPHEN COLBERT: You
know what I mean?
Don't look at my finger.
You'll miss out on all that--
ERIC SCHMIDT: Everyone
understood that's the
strategic [INAUDIBLE].
Go ahead.
AUDIENCE: Hi.
This is a few years ago, but
what actually happened between
you and "The Venture
Bros." guys?
Is there bad blood there, or was
there a miscommunication?
STEPHEN COLBERT: No, I can't
do my show and do that.
I also had to quit "Harvey
Birdman," too.
I just couldn't do my show
and do the voiceovers.
Because I think "The Venture
Bros." was great.
And I loved doing "Harvey
Birdman." But they had to wait
for me too much.
Do you know what I mean?
I eventually couldn't do
any of it anymore.
When I had to quit "Harvey
Birdman," I played a guy named
Phil Ken Sebben and a
guy named Reducto.
And Phil Ken Sebben would
say things like,
haha, bobbly parts.
And when both of them died on
one show-- they were both hit
by a bus on the same corner at
different parts of the same
cartoon by the same bus.
And if you freeze the frame at
the moment that I get hit, my
characters get hit, on the
side of the bus, it says,
watch "The Colbert Report,"
11:30 on Comedy Central.
But no, there's no bad blood.
I think they're both great.
AUDIENCE: Cool.
Thanks.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Employees have
submitted questions online.
Here's one that I'm not quite
sure how to interpret.
So I'll just read it to you.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Sure.
ERIC SCHMIDT: "Would
you rather fight
one horse-sized duck"--
STEPHEN COLBERT: Or one
duck-sized horse.
ERIC SCHMIDT: --"or 100
duck-sized horses?"
STEPHEN COLBERT: Yeah.
Yeah.
100 duck-sized horses,
I would say.
100 duck sized horses.
ERIC SCHMIDT: You heard
it here first.
That's a clear answer.
STEPHEN COLBERT: That's
a clear answer.
Did I win?
Is there a right answer there?
ERIC SCHMIDT: I'm
sure there is.
STEPHEN COLBERT:
How about you?
What would you rather do?
ERIC SCHMIDT: I would
pick the opposite.
STEPHEN COLBERT: A
horse sized duck?
Are you insane?
I mean, it's not a sharp
beak but one blow.
The thing has got to weigh
like 1,200 pounds.
Whereas duck-sized horses, you
could just snap their spines
as they came at you.
What I don't understand is,
why are we fighting them?
Wait a second.
I know why I'm right.
Because horses are vegetarian,
and ducks are carnivores.
The duck would come at you.
And the horses essentially would
leave you alone unless
your pockets were
filled with hay.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Which
they are not.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Which they are
not, as far as we know.
ERIC SCHMIDT: OK.
That's a very clear answer.
Yes, ma'am?
AUDIENCE: Can you recall a
time that you were struck
speechless?
STEPHEN COLBERT: Yes.
Several, but the one that leaps
to mind immediately was
when I had Jane Fonda
on the show.
And without preamble, she got
up, sat on my lap, and stuck
her tongue in my ear.
And I was rigid.
I didn't know what to do.
And if anyone's old enough to
remember Johnny Carson, there
was the famous time when a
spider monkey crawled on top
of his head.
He was having Jack Hanna on.
And a spider monkey jumped
on his head.
And I thought, Jane Fonda
is my spider monkey.
I don't know what to
do with myself.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Googlers have
continued to suggest important
questions as a follow up to the
duck versus horse debate.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Oh, really?
ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes.
Here's the next one.
STEPHEN COLBERT:
As a follow up?
ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes.
STEPHEN COLBERT: From my answer,
on a piece of paper?
Google's that good that they're
actually transmitting
onto a piece of paper
right now?
Why are you withholding
that technology
from the rest of us?
ERIC SCHMIDT: We really are.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Wow.
ERIC SCHMIDT: "What are your
plans for welcoming the royal
baby?" This is the question.
I'm sorry.
"Any suggestions to what the
baby should be named?"
STEPHEN COLBERT: Stephen
Colbert's got a nice ring to
it, obviously.
Charles Phillip Arthur George,
George Phillip Arthur Charles,
Arthur Phillip Charles George.
ERIC SCHMIDT: All four?
STEPHEN COLBERT: Any
one of those.
ERIC SCHMIDT: In
whatever order?
STEPHEN COLBERT: Sure.
Sure.
If there's an infinite
number of four names.
ERIC SCHMIDT: There are,
well, 2 to the 4th.
STEPHEN COLBERT: 16
or something.
2 to the 4 or whatever
you said.
ERIC SCHMIDT: 4 times
3 times 2.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Something
like that.
Whatever.
I don't know.
Yeah.
ERIC SCHMIDT: OK.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Yeah.
Again, the number line.
The number line.
That's what I liked
when I was a kid.
No matter what class you were
in, whether you were in first
grade or if you were in
calculus, the book starts with
the number line.
First pages is let's remind
ourselves what integers are.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Another
Google has asked--
STEPHEN COLBERT: That was the
middle of a sentence just now.
ERIC SCHMIDT: OK.
Another Googler has asked--
STEPHEN COLBERT: You people
have to put up with this.
I'm so sorry.
Power mad, is what I
would describe you.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Googlers have
asked, "How would you
officially determine if
a tree is balanced?
What is the runtime of your
algorithm?" For your benefit--
STEPHEN COLBERT: If a
tree is balanced--
a tree is balanced if you
can hang ornaments
on any part of it.
ERIC SCHMIDT: That's a
very good argument.
Did you have a question?
Yes, go ahead.
AUDIENCE: What is the difference
between Stephen
Colbert, the person,
and Stephen
Colbert, the character?
And what were the challenges
in you becoming Stephen
Colbert, the character?
STEPHEN COLBERT: There are a
lot of differences, I hope,
between me and my character.
I mean, there are some things
we have in common.
We're both from South
Carolina.
We're both fans of
Tolkien's work.
Though, I tried to keep that
separate at first.
I tried to keep that membrane.
At first I was like,
no, no, no.
That's too important to me.
I don't want him to have that.
But there were too many
opportunities for me
to wax about it.
So I went ahead and let that
membrane be permeable.
But we're both super
Catholics.
He thinks he's Captain
Catholic.
I still go to church.
And I'm not a particularly
pious or devout Catholic.
Though I still go.
He's a well-intentioned, poorly
informed, high status idiot.
And I'd like to think I'm
well-intentioned.
I'm better informed
than he is.
He is completely incurious
about the world.
He is living an unexamined
life.
And that's fine with him.
He's high status.
I really enjoy being
low status.
I really enjoy playing
a weak character.
That's why I really enjoy
him is that he is this
unbelievably self-important
character.
In fact, Jim Fenhagen,
who designed the
Republican set this year.
And he does the Olympics.
He's a huge set designer.
And he's a wonderful guy,
an old friend of mine.
I said to him-- when he was
designing my first set, I
said, I want your inspiration
to be da Vinci's "Last
Supper." Because if you look at
da Vinci's "Last Supper,"
Christ has no halo.
Existence, all of creation
is his halo.
Because there are all these
converging lines in the room.
And in reality, they converge
upon Christ's head.
As the world is God's
foot stool--
as it says in Matthew--
the world is Christ's halo.
And so I said, I want my
whole set to be like
a halo around me.
So if you looked at my original
set, there were these
convergent lines that
come out of my set.
And we painted it on the floor
so I am the rising sun.
There are no television
monitors behind me.
I'm not like what Brian
Williams' or even Jon's set.
He's got television monitors
behind him.
And he's conveying
the news to you.
He is a conduit.
I am the news.
I am a dawn onto my own day.
But that's the outward status
of the character.
But his weakness and his
incuriousness and his thin
skinned quality weakens him
in such wonderful ways.
And I love that weakness,
because I think that's the
reality of me.
I think I'm not as well
defined and as he is.
And I enjoy copping to that
in my own behavior.
ERIC SCHMIDT: What's
interesting about--
I think there is union in your
character and you personally.
You're very supportive
of the troops.
And I remember when you were in
Iraq, you got the president
to order you to get a haircut.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Yeah.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Pretty serious.
STEPHEN COLBERT: That was fun.
Yeah.
Sure, yeah.
I knew I wanted to have my
head shaved, because I
thought, oh, that'll feel
good in the room.
That'll feel good with
all the troops.
And I said, who could
shave my head?
The general.
Well, who's going to make
the general do it?
The president.
And everybody said yes.
It was really lovely.
ERIC SCHMIDT: And I think this
work that you're doing with
the troops is fantastic.
Was there some reason in growing
up or something that
you felt that way?
Or is it just you're
just a genuine
patriot about this stuff?
STEPHEN COLBERT: I don't know.
I'm a genuine patriot.
I love my country.
And I think patriotism
does not require
focus on the troops.
Do you know what I mean?
There are other ways to be
patriotic other than
association with the military.
That being said, I think not
enough attention is paid to
the men and women who make the
sacrifices that we have
collectively decided they should
make and then ignore.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Do you
know what I mean?
ERIC SCHMIDT: I agree.
STEPHEN COLBERT: We're
all responsible.
We all are sending
the troop orders.
Do you know what I mean?
And we did it without a lot of
thought, but with a lot of
emotion 10, 11 years ago, and
not a lot of discussion.
And then we thought
our job was done.
And so because I talk about it
a lot, or used to talk about
it more when it was more in the
consciousness, especially
the news consciousness, because
my show is a shadow of
the actual news.
And I'm, in some ways, very
reactive that way.
I felt at a certain point that
I had a responsibility, along
with my responsibility to be
funny, to take opportunities
that came to me to talk about
the troops when I can.
I have an 82nd Airborne flag
in my office because very
early on in the show, a young
man and his wife came.
And she had to speak for
him because he had
such bad brain damage.
And he still could hear.
But he couldn't really
converse.
And he enjoyed the show.
And he gave me the flag.
And all he could really get
out was, don't forget us.
Please keep talking about us.
So I've got it on my wall.
And I think about it.
And we don't nearly do enough.
And we don't help as
much as we should.
But certainly, when you have an
opportunity that fits within--
I still have the responsibility
to do a comedy show.
When I can fit those two things
together, we're more
than happy to try to
make it happen.
And as I said, we
should do more.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Well, we still
have 100,000 troops in
Afghanistan.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Right.
Right.
I mean, we went to Iraq.
And I'd love to be able to do
something in Afghanistan, too.
And sadly, I think I might
have the time to.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Yeah.
Go head.
AUDIENCE: So a few year's back,
you suffered a terrible
work related injury
at your wrist.
So my question to you is, do
you plan to expand to other
body parts, like ankles, legs?
STEPHEN COLBERT: Anything that
shatters, I will call
attention to.
AUDIENCE: Thank you.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Anything that
happens to me-- that's the
nice thing about the character
and one of the things that
saves me when there's down
time in the news is that
anything I think is worth
talking about is news.
That's the character,
can name it.
Anything that happens to me is
the most important thing
that's happening right now.
And when I broke my wrist, sad
to say, the first thing I
thought of is content.
AUDIENCE: And I have
a further question.
How is your auditioning of Eric
Schmidt going right now?
And do you plan on taking
Eric on your book tour?
STEPHEN COLBERT: He's
doing very well.
He's doing very well.
Do you have an up tempo
or a ballad?
ERIC SCHMIDT: Oh, my god.
STEPHEN COLBERT: [SINGING]
I really can't stay.
Baby, it's cold outside.
Go ahead.
Hit it.
ERIC SCHMIDT: I learned
how to dance with PSY.
That was enough.
STEPHEN COLBERT: You did?
ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Wow.
ERIC SCHMIDT: I was
really bad.
STEPHEN COLBERT: So is he.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Come on, he is
the number one cultural
phenomenon, 800,000,000--
STEPHEN COLBERT: And if it's
popular, it must be good.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Absolutely.
Speaking of which, again, many
Googlers have been asking
questions about your upcoming
YouTube show.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Yeah,
what is that?
I have an upcoming
YouTube show?
ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes, we have all
decided that you have to have
a YouTube show of some kind.
STEPHEN COLBERT: OK.
Does that violate my contract
with Viacom to have that?
Because you guys had a billion
dollar lawsuit against each
other, you realize.
And Sumner Redstone
would rather see
your head on a stick.
ERIC SCHMIDT: You actually asked
us on television to give
you the money.
You forget.
STEPHEN COLBERT: No,
I don't forget.
You never gave it to me.
ERIC SCHMIDT: I know.
I know.
We discussed--
STEPHEN COLBERT: If you gave the
money, I'd be knee deep in
hookers and blow,
and I'd forget.
And I was deposed.
I was deposed for
that lawsuit.
ERIC SCHMIDT: I know you were.
STEPHEN COLBERT: And I've
got a good story
if you'd stop talking.
I'm sorry.
What was your question?
ERIC SCHMIDT: Tell your story.
STEPHEN COLBERT: OK.
OK.
So it's been a few years.
I don't think I'm violating
anything.
So I got deposed for the YouTube
Google thing, the
Viacom thing.
Because boy, they were
mad at you guys.
They were so mad at you guys.
And so your all's lawyer brought
me in to say, well,
how isn't YouTube great?
And wouldn't you not have a show
if it wasn't for YouTube?
And all those kind
of questions.
And the lawyer for Google would
read me statements that
I said on air.
And I said, well, I
didn't say that.
And he goes, no, you said it.
You said it on this broadcast.
I said, no, my character
said that.
And my character's not
under oath right now.
And they said, well, if your
character were here, what
would he say?
And so I would say, OK, well,
I'll tell you what.
If you ask me questions that my
character has to answer as
opposed to me, I'll move my
coffee cup to the other side
of my place here.
And then you'll know I'm
speaking as my character.
And so they'd ask
me a question.
I'd keep my cup over here.
And then in the middle of a
question, I'd start moving it
over to the side.
Because I realized they
were asking me
something for my character.
And the person would go, let
the record reflect that the
coffee cup is now on the left
side of Mr. Colbert.
ERIC SCHMIDT: You
have a question.
STEPHEN COLBERT: My character's
answer was always
like, I don't know what you're
talking about, buddy.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Yes, ma'am?
AUDIENCE: I was just wondering
if you have anything left on
your career wish list?
STEPHEN COLBERT: Sure.
I just don't know.
I never know what's going
to happen even tomorrow.
I just got to spend the week
with some of my favorite
creative artists with "The
Hobbit." It was unbelievable.
Weta Workshop made me
my own hobbit feet.
Next week, I get to sing with
all these wonderful artists
doing Christmas carols.
I've done my own Christmas
special.
I've had a rally on the mall.
I've testified before
Congress.
I may or may not appear
in "The Hobbit."
The nice thing about my
show-- and whether or
not I do show forever--
I mean, everything ends.
But whether or not I do the show
forever, the nice thing
about my show is that as the
host and executive producer, I
get to ask of myself anything
I want to try.
But that also means, I have
to do everything I know.
And so it's just this tremendous
sort of refreshing
gift, as tiring as the show
is, because I am kind of
decaying before your eyes.
In the same the way, it's
also rejuvenating.
Because the show is only
what I want it to be.
I can always say no to myself
or ask myself something new.
But beyond this, I just want
to work with people I like.
I love the people I work with.
I love what we do.
And I just want to be able
to do it with joy.
And the moment I can't do that,
I have got to stop and
try to do something else.
AUDIENCE: There are times when
you've taken your persona
outside of the show itself,
like when you ran for
president or started
your Super PAC.
And I was curious, how did you
get the idea to do that?
Or why did you decide to start
taking the character outside
of the show itself?
STEPHEN COLBERT: Well, he thinks
he belongs everywhere.
You know what I mean?
He thinks he belongs
everywhere.
AUDIENCE: So did he make the
decision, or did you?
STEPHEN COLBERT:
You know what?
ERIC SCHMIDT: That sounds like
one of those Google--
STEPHEN COLBERT: My ego is just
big enough that I'd like
to think I'm in the
driver's seat.
But I'm not entirely sure.
ERIC SCHMIDT: That sounds
like one of those
Google lawyer questions.
Are you a Google lawyer?
AUDIENCE: No, I'm an engineer.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Ah, even worse.
Very precise.
STEPHEN COLBERT: I like putting
him in situations.
Because he thinks he belongs
everywhere, anywhere he goes,
as long as we can prepare
for the situation,
I rarely take him.
I do talk shows,
like right now.
Or if I go on Dave, or I do
any news talk shows or
anything like that, or even the
books tour, any place I
would do it, I'm only myself.
I could lapse into him or the
way he might behave at times.
But out of context, he clangs
against the world.
And I have to be prepared
for that clang.
And so I'm very prepared for
the correspondents' dinner.
We're very prepared for
the rally in the mall.
I'm very prepared
to go to Iraq.
I'm very prepared to testify
before Congress.
I'm very prepared to give a
testimony any place, appear
before the FEC, or give a speech
to supporters on the
streets of Washington, DC.
There's a lot of preparation
that goes into that.
And I like it because
I like changing the
context of a space.
I like changing the context of
a supposedly not performance
space into a performance
space and to see--
well, here's what
I like to do.
I like to think of the character
as a pebble that I
can throw into the news and then
report on my own ripples.
And I've said this before, but
Jon Stewart has characterized
what he does as sitting at the
back of America's classroom
and shooting spit balls.
I am the spit ball.
And I like to shoot myself into
it and see what it looks
like when I'm in a news story.
For instance, appointed Senator
of South Carolina.
That's interesting.
I didn't intend that.
Usually the best ones, I didn't
actuate, I didn't push.
They were invitations.
I didn't say, I want to testify
before Congress.
They asked me.
And I said, you know this is
going to be a terrible idea?
And they said, we want
you to come anyway.
And I said, all right.
In the same way, yesterday I
was just walking around,
nothing happening.
And suddenly, there was
a horse underneath me.
And it was me being Senator
from South Carolina.
I thought, how delightful.
How delightful that we've
planned all these seeds of
political activism
in my home state.
And it is a reasonable,
ridiculous thing to surmise
that I might get the job.
But when you put yourself in
the story, and I put this
character, this very false
character into a story,
anything that looks
like me in that
story is probably bullshit.
And that's a specific
way of doing satire.
It's satire by comparison,
rather than satire by
deconstruction, if you
can understand
the difference there.
I'm falsely constructing the
satire as opposed to
deconstructing other
people's behavior.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Two
more questions.
I have a question.
STEPHEN COLBERT: I've
really enjoyed this,
before we get to this.
This has been lovely.
ERIC SCHMIDT: You haven't heard
the last two questions.
OK.
Now, I'm concerned about
end of year timing.
STEPHEN COLBERT: End
of year timing?
ERIC SCHMIDT: End
of year timing.
Because this week is the week
we need to buy this book, en
masse, globally, everyone.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Yeah.
This is the first week
that you need to.
ERIC SCHMIDT: The first week?
STEPHEN COLBERT: Yeah.
ERIC SCHMIDT: OK.
Then we have December 21, which
is the end of the world,
which is the Mayan
calendar date.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Yeah.
Do we know how that's
happening?
ERIC SCHMIDT: You'll have
to do some research
on Google on this.
Perhaps we could look it up
while we're chatting.
And then we have the fiscal
cliff, which Washington is
obsessed about.
So do you have any comments on
the fiscal cliff and its
timing after your book and
after the Mayan end?
STEPHEN COLBERT: I'd rather the
world come to an end than
talk about marginal tax rates.
We've got a pretty darn good
fiscal cliff script.
I think that first show after
Thanksgiving was the first
show that I thought, oh,
this is the first
show after the election.
Because after the election, up
to Thanksgiving, you're just
sweeping up shrapnel from the
election, emotional and
political shrapnel from it.
And then the first show back,
we knew the fiscal
cliff was a big thing.
We did a piece.
It was a perfectly fine,
first act piece.
We had a guest.
We had Reihan Salam on the show
to talk about Republicans
capitulating taxes.
And right after that, we wrote
another really nice fiscal
cliff piece that I keep waiting
to be out of date.
But the ball just won't
move that much.
I mean, Obama can submit
his thing.
The Republicans can submit
their thing.
But the story is
still the same.
The story's about,
you go first.
You go first.
ERIC SCHMIDT: One side could
try to hide from the other.
STEPHEN COLBERT:
What'd you say?
ERIC SCHMIDT: One side could
try to hide from the other.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Then
someone has to yell,
olly olly oxen free?
Yes?
ERIC SCHMIDT: That's right.
STEPHEN COLBERT: I'm actually so
avoiding talking about the
fiscal cliff that I actually
did a week on "The Hobbit."
ERIC SCHMIDT: We'll
have you have the
honor of the last question.
AUDIENCE: Uh-oh.
Do you need a writer
in that case?
I guess that's what
I should ask?
Why did comedy become your
thing, do you think?
Or did comedy pick you?
STEPHEN COLBERT: Well, that's
a nice way of putting it.
That's a nice way
of putting it.
I would say, I can't under
emphasize how important
comedy's been to my life and
how important certain
opportunities that came
along to my life.
And many of them seem
accidental.
For instance, Second City.
I didn't think I was going
to be comedian.
I had a secret desire as a high
schooler to be a comedian.
I didn't know what that meant.
I just really liked
being funny.
I'm from one of 11 kids.
And we're a funny family.
And being funny is important.
The king of the room was
whoever was funniest.
And I remember as a child,
seeing comedy helped.
My family had a tragedy
when I was younger.
My father and two of
my brothers died.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Oh, I'm sorry.
STEPHEN COLBERT: And I remember
my sister making
another one of my sisters laugh
so hard in the car away
from the cemetery.
One of my sisters made the other
sisters laugh so hard
that she fell on the floor of
the limo, one of those big
floors, with the rumble seat
facing each other.
And she fell on the
floor laughing.
And I remember thinking,
I want to do that.
I don't know whether it was
specifically in the context of
dealing with tragedy, because
I was only 10.
But I remember specifically
thinking, I want that.
I'd love to have been able
to do that right now.
And then I fell asleep every
night for years listening to
Bill Cosby, "Wonderfulness,"
"Very Funny Fellow," David
Frye, "Richard Nixon, A
Fantasy," George Carlin,
"Class Clown," "Let's Get
Small," "Wild and Crazy Guy."
Back when you could stack
albums, stack so many of them,
the top one kind of played
slow as it went around.
And then I went to college
to be an actor,
but an actor actor.
I wore black, and
I had a beard.
And I was like, let me share
my misery with you.
Poet slash jerk kind of actor.
And then I accidentally met some
people from Second City
and took some classes there and
got invited to audition
and accidentally--
just sort of the happy
accident--
fell in with some
great people.
And I quit Second City four
times in order to go do
straight, black box
avant-garde kind
of theater in Chicago.
That's what I was going to be.
I was going to live in a studio
apartment with no
furniture and a futon on the
floor that I stuffed myself
with yak fur.
And just single and
with a beard and
sandals and a tashiki.
And I was going to drink from a
samovar that was constantly
bubbling in the background.
But then one day,
I was backstage.
I kept on returning
to doing comedy.
And I was backstage one night.
And this is really the thing
that made the decision for me.
I was backstage with
a guy named Dave
Razowsky, who does a--
what's it called?
A blog?
Audio?
Does a podcast.
He does a great podcast.
Yeah.
What do you kids do?
Your podcasts?
He's a great guy.
We're backstage.
Somebody was on stage.
And they were supposed to do
a very simple blackout.
And a blackout is
a very short--
it's got one joke.
And then the lights go out.
This is at Second City.
It's a pace keeper
for the show.
She goes out there.
And the blackout is this.
You're supposed to say, I'd like
to do a song for you now.
Welcome to the No Exit Cafe.
I'd like to do a song
for you right now, a
song for the whales.
And then you tune up your
guitar for a long time.
This is a song for the whales.
And then you go,
[MAKES WHALE SOUNDS].
It's very simple.
You do whistle and clicks
and everything.
It's fine.
Not a great laugh, but
it works every time.
She goes out there to do it.
I'd like to do a song
for you right now.
She goes into her whistling
and her clicking.
We're backstage waiting
to go on for the next
scene, me and Dave.
And we said, it's not
getting any laughs.
This is foolproof.
No laughs at all.
What's going on?
Something's wrong.
And then she goes,
oh, I forgot.
It's song for whales.
And we burst into laughter
backstage.
And we threw our arms around
each other in the
agony of her failure.
And we're just laughing.
We fell like a collapsing
tee-pee.
We just fell to the ground.
And Dave's feet went out onto
stage, like this, as we held
each other like lovers.
The most intimate, joyful
experience at her
pain that we all knew.
And she could hear
it happening.
And the audience could
see our feet.
And she started laughing
at how wonderfully
she had just failed.
And I thought at that moment,
this is what I want.
If failure of this scale can
cause this much joy for
anyone, then this is the
healthiest thing that I could
do with the rest of my life.
And I will do nothing else.
And I've never looked back
from that moment.
[APPLAUSE]
ERIC SCHMIDT: So Stephen, I
think what you see is that it
really takes a brilliant man
to produce this character.
And what I like about this is
we get a sense of who you
really are.
And we get some extra
special, too.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Well, it
was nice of you to say.
ERIC SCHMIDT: And thank
you very much
for coming to Google.
Now, we've got 30,000,
40,000 employees.
STEPHEN COLBERT: So I should
sign all of them.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Let's just review
what they have to do.
This book needs to
be the number one
best seller this week?
STEPHEN COLBERT: Yes.
ERIC SCHMIDT: And every
week thereafter?
STEPHEN COLBERT: Well,
one week will do.
And we'll see what happens.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Until my book
comes out, anyway.
Right?
So our instructions are--
STEPHEN COLBERT: Go
get the book.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Buy the book.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Don't
even read it.
That doesn't matter to me.
I just have to leapfrog one of
O'Reilly's best sellers.
ERIC SCHMIDT: I actually
read it.
And it's phenomenal.
STEPHEN COLBERT: You
are so perceptive.
There's a reason why you
are who you are.
ERIC SCHMIDT: I didn't quite
get the 3D glasses thing.
And so I didn't put
them on right.
But aside from that,
it's a great book.
STEPHEN COLBERT: You didn't
put 3D glasses on right?
ERIC SCHMIDT: No, I didn't.
STEPHEN COLBERT: You could
run Google, but you don't
understand 3D glasses
technology?
ERIC SCHMIDT: We have
much better glasses
technology at Google.
STEPHEN COLBERT: I understand.
ERIC SCHMIDT: Stephen Colbert,
thank you very much.
STEPHEN COLBERT: Thank you.
Thank you.